In this project, I implemented a deep learning inference engine in C++ using FP32 precision. 
The goal was to manually implement core operators such as Convolution, Batch Normalization, ReLU, Max Pooling, Fully Connected, 
and Softmax, and then use them to execute a CIFAR-10 model.
The system is designed using a config-driven approach, where the model architecture is defined in a JSON file and executed dynamically. 
This makes the engine flexible and easier to debug.


------UTILITY FUNCTIONS------
I implemented reusable utility functions to support the execution pipeline. These include:

Reading binary files for inputs and weights
Writing outputs to binary files
Comparing outputs with reference values
Logging execution details

These utilities were essential for debugging and validating intermediate outputs.


------TEST RESULTS------
1. Unit Testing

Each operator was tested independently with at least 5 test cases by varying input sizes and parameters.

Convolution:
Tested with different input sizes, kernel sizes, stride, and padding.
Result: All test cases passed (max diff ≈ 1e-6)

Batch Normalization:
Tested with varying channel sizes and parameters.
Result: All test cases passed (max diff ≈ 1e-6)

ReLU:
Verified correct activation behavior (negative → 0).
Result: All test cases passed

Max Pooling:
Tested with different kernel sizes and strides.
Result: All test cases passed

Fully Connected:
Tested multiple input-output combinations including large inputs (4096 → 128).
Result: Passed with tolerance ≈ 1e-3

Softmax:
Verified output sums to 1 and matches reference.
Result: Passed (max diff ≈ 1e-8)

2. Model Testing (CIFAR-10)
The model was reconstructed using model.json and executed in both C++ and PyTorch.

Output Comparison:

Max diff  : 1.7881393e-07
Mean diff : 8.456409e-08
OUTPUT MATCH 

Result: Outputs match within floating-point precision.


------OBSERVATIONS------

1. Config-based execution made the model flexible and easier to manage
2. Modular operator design simplified debugging
3. Floating-point differences were very small (~1e-7)
4. Skip connections required careful shape handling
5. File-based input/output helped in validation

------PERFORMANCE INSIGHTS------

1. Convolution layers took the most time (~200 ms per layer)
2. BatchNorm and ReLU were very fast (<5 ms)
3. Fully connected layers were efficient except for large inputs
4. Execution time was consistent across runs
5. Logging helped identify performance-heavy layers

------CHALLENGES FACED------

1. Tensor shape mismatches during convolution and FC layers
2. Skip connection errors due to incorrect channel assumptions
3. File path issues with relative directories
4. Floating-point differences during comparison
5. Incomplete Python model causing mismatches initially

    -------HOW IT IS SOLVED------
    1. Carefully tracked tensor shapes at each layer
    2. Verified weight dimensions using file size calculations
    3. Standardized working directory and paths
    4. Used tolerance-based comparison for FP32 values
    5. Switched to config-driven Python implementation for consistency

------FINAL STATUS------
 Unit Testing Completed
 Model Testing Completed
 Observations Included
 Performance Insights Included
 Challenges Faced Included